This is HISTORY file for unixcw. It describes major changes in unixcw
releases. For detailed description of changes see NEWS file.





The original UnixCW package, version 1, grew out of a desire to have a program
available under Linux that was very similar to the one I was used to under DOS.
While several Linux Morse Tutors were, in fact, still are, available, I never
quite found one that did the stuff I wanted.

From the original UnixCW package came version 2.  This was almost a total
rewrite, although it included the same basic binaries as were in version 1.
The two major changes for this version were the addition of an extensive,
general purpose CW library, and also an X Window-based CW tutor program.

With version 2.1, finally, came full sound card support, built into the CW
library itself.  All three main user level programs that use the library were
enhanced to allow control over the sound card tone volume.  Console speaker
sound is still there, if needed, but sound card tones became the default mode.

Version 2.2 was a bug-fixed version of 2.1.  It seems that some sound card
drivers (some later OSS drivers) couldn't handle the volume control ioctls that
the CW library uses, and this meant sound card tones would not work for these
systems.  To solve this, version 2.2 uses the /dev/mixer device to control
volumes if it finds that it cannot do this with the main sound card device.

Version 2.3 is a thorough overhaul, cleanup, and refactoring of version 2.2.
All the code has been reformatted for correct Gnu style, and programs now take
a lot more care over what they do, and don't do, in signal handler context.
cwcp and xcwcp now offer fully configurable modes and dictionaries through a
configuration file option, and xcwcp has been rewritten in proper C++ style.

Version 3.0 has been prepared and released by new lead developer,
Kamil Ignacak. The takeover of unixcw has been discussed with and
approved by Simon Baldwin.  Main changes in 3.0 are:
  o rewriting parts of libcw so that using OSS is less probable to cause
    problems (this should solve at least one Debian bug)
  o adding support for ALSA to libcw; libcw uses OSS as default audio system,
    but there are no differences in support of OSS and ALSA in terms of
    functionality
  o porting xcwcp to Qt4
The fact that there is a new maintainer should take some burden off of
shoulders of Kamal Mostafa, who was responsible for (among other things)
patching unixcw.
Version 3.0 introduces some changes in API, and there should be some
more API changes in 3.1. Hopefully things will be more stable in 3.2.

Version 3.0.1 contains small fixes that don't influence core capabilities
of any application, but are still important. Patches for this release were
provided mainly by Kamal Mostafa (thanks Kamal!).

Version 3.1.0 adds support for PulseAudio.
Plenty of other changes in library code improve timings of tones produced
by the library.
Few library functions are deprecated, they are replaced by new functions.

Version 3.1.1 fixes small problem with interlocks in thread code.

Version 3.2.0 introduces small fixes and improvements in libcw, and
implements new debug facilities (the old ones are being deprecated).
It also fixes faulty logic checking "--disable-feature" flags in
configure.ac. The problem was spotted by Thomas Beierlein.

Version 3.3.0 is mostly fixes. More fixes in configuration flags
(thanks again to Thomas Beierlein). Patches fixing compilation under
FreeBSD (thanks to Diane Bruce). Fixes and improvements of handling of
iambic keying in libcw and xcwcp. Fixing compilation error in
cwutils/dictionary.h.

Version 3.3.1 is just one fix in libcw. Thanks to Pino Zollo ZP4KFX
for reporting a bug and testing solution.

Version 3.4.0 contains two changes in source code:
 - refreshment of cwcp code;
 - splitting libcw.c into parts.
Additionally the build system has been updated to correctly build
unixcw on:
 - FreeBSD 10 (x86_64-unknown-freebsd10.0, with clang 3.3);
 - FreeBSD 9.3 (freebsd9.3 with gcc 4.2.1);
 - OpenBSD 5.5 (amd64-unknown-openbsd5.5 with gcc 4.2.1);

Version 3.4.1 focused on internal changes in libcw. All library code
is now split between separate module files. Some test code from
libcw_test_public.c has been moved to respective modules.

Version 3.4.2 focused on internal changes in libcw. Improving
separation of modules in the library. Taking steps to separate
library's global variables (generator, receiver, key) and functions
implicitly operating on these variables from functions taking a
generator, receiver, or key as an argument.
Improving unit tests code.
Testing unixcw on Alpine Linux (because of musl libc) and FreeBSD 10.0
(because this is *unix*cw).
